- [Instructor] In this lesson, we'll begin updating
our project's configuration to compile and package
our application using multiple versions of Java.
Being able to compile using multiple versions
during the migration period
is very helpful because it allows us
to continue to maintain the existing application
as well as migrate to the new version of Java.
Now our application is being built with Maven.
So that means we're going to be performing this work
within the pom.xml file.
Inside of this file, you'll notice a java.version property
which has been set to eight.
This is a spring boot property
that works behind the scenes with Maven
in order to build our project using
the specified Java version.
So in this case, it's going to compile the application
using Java 8.
Now, in order to be able to
compile in both our current and target version,
we're going to use a feature of Maven called a profile.
So within our pom.xml file,
I'm going to go ahead and add the profiles tag,
and within this tag, we can configure individual profiles
that we would like to use to build our project.
Each profile must have an ID.
So we're first going to create our Java 8 profile,
and then inside of the profile,
we're going to use the activation tag
in order to specify that we would like this
to be our default profile.
So here you see the activeByDefault tag
and we just set that to true.
Now inside of the profile,
we are able to add
the properties that are specific to that profile
so I'm going to go ahead and copy
the property that sets the Java version to eight,
and then I'll move that within the profile
and we can format it.
All right, so, that's our first profile,
and then it's pretty easy to make another one.
We're just going to copy the existing profile,
and then we can change its name to java11.
So now, we have a profile for our target version.
We do not want it to be the default profile,
so I'm going to remove the activation tag
and then we simply need to change the Java version
over to 11.
Okay, let's save that, and now we're going to build
a run configuration.
So if we right click on our project
and go to run as and then we can select Maven build,
it's going to open this dialogue that allows us
to build a run configuration for Maven.
I'm going to name the run configuration Java 8
and then for the goals, we're going to instruct Maven
to clean our project and to package it.
And then here you can see we can specify a profile,
which I'm going to set as Java 8.
The final thing we need to do is navigate
over to the JRE tab, and here you can see
we're set to run with Java 11.
We're going to switch that in order to run
the application with Java 8.
So I can just click on the alternative JRE
and select jdk.8.
At this point, I'll apply the changes
to this run configuration, and then go ahead
and kick off our Maven build.
Here we can see in the console the application begins
to build, and it's successfully built using Java 8.
Now let's build our run configuration for Java 11.
To do that, we'll head back into the run configurations,
and this time we have a head start.
We can just duplicate our Java 8 profile
and here, we're able to change the name.
I'll switch it over to Java 11.
And then I'm going to specify that this run configuration
will run Maven using the Java 11 profile,
and then I can click on the JRE tab and set
the runtime JRE back to Java 11.
Okay, with that in place, I'll hit apply,
and then I can go ahead and hit run.
And here you'll see the build will kick off.
Now, we did have some issues.
It looks like our application is currently not building
in Java 11.
So that's a sign of some trouble to come
that we'll have to fix during our migration project.
For now, our project's Maven build
is configured to support multiple versions of the JDK.
And this is going to be very beneficial
as we maintain the project while it's being migrated.
Additionally, this strategy can be useful
for building against newer versions of Java
to discover potential build issues in advance.